>> Kyle Simpson: Well this
example is typically used to show
how people gloss over the top of
closure and don't fully understand it.
It's not usually done with timer,
usually it's done with,
click handlers on buttons on a form or
something like that.
But the idea here is that we're thinking
we're getting a new i for each iteration.
And so when we close over that i on line
3, that it's gonna preserve the 1, 2, 3,
4, 5 value that it should have.
So at the 1 second mark, we should get i
1, at the 2 second mark we should get i 2,
i 3, i 4, i 5, that's the spirit of what
we're trying to accomplish with this code,
but it doesn't work.
When you run this code,
turns out it'll print 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, why?
Well, there's two reasons why.
There's a surface reason why,
and there's a deeper reason why.
The surface reason why is, well of course
i is six at the end of the loop, and
all these timers run a lot later, so
of course it's gonna print out 6.
But the deeper question is Why don't
we get a new i for each iteration?
>> Kyle Simpson: Because we used the var,
we made one i attached
to the existing scope.
Of course where all five of these inner
functions are all gonna close over
the exact same i, and
reveal the exact same answer for i right?
That's the deeper question.
Something about the for loop tries to
convince us that we're getting a new
i with each iteration,
but in this way we're not.
Do you recall earlier in the course
we talked about an example of
how we could get a new variable for
each iteration of a for loop?
Do you remember the IIFE, here's the IIFE.
Now we legitimately are creating a new i.
So the i on line four
that we're closing over,
is that one, not the one in the for loop.
We're making a whole new i for
each iteration.
So now when that setTimeout runs,
what do you think it's gonna print?
It's gonna print 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
>> Kyle Simpson: So the IIFE was
a way to create some scope, and
not just some scope, but
a variable each time we want it to run.
But then we looked at block scoping,
and we said that's cool, block scoping.
I can make a new j by
just saying let j = i.
And now, when we close over j, we're
closing over a different j each time.
>> Kyle Simpson: You see that?
>> Kyle Simpson: JavaScript has
one more trick up its sleeve.
We don't need even to do the whole
let inside of the for loop thing.
If you swap the var for
the let, right there,
it will automatically create
a whole new i for each iteration.
>> Kyle Simpson: So, the question
to critically ask yourself is,
how many i's do I have?
How many i's do we now have,
we now have 5, one for each iteration.
That's the only way this could possibly
work is if each iteration got its own i,
so that independently each one
of those function closers,
closed over a different i.
If they all closed over the same one,
you're gonna get the exact same output for
all 5 console log statements.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yes?
>> Speaker 2: So each iteration in this
situation consumes more memory cuz it
keeps all the other i's in memory too,
until setTimeout executes.
>> Kyle Simpson: I don't that I would say
each iteration is creating more memory,
each closure is more memory.
Every time you create a closure there's
a small tiny little sliver a few hundred
byte worth of code,
that's gonna be reserved for that closure.
Closure does hold on to memory, and if you
don't what it to, you don't create it or
make sure to unset
the closure when you're done.
The second question,
is closure and inner function or
its ability to remember the variable
outside of the inner function?
A lot of people confuse this, a lot of
people say the closure is the function.
A function is not a closure,
a closure is not a function.
A closure is a characteristic of
a function in a lexically scoped
environment, which allows that function to
continue to access variables outside of
itself, even when that function is passed
to a different location and executed.
So, the most easy way for
us to observe a closure
is to have an inner function inside of
an outer scope like an outer function.
And then take that inner function and
transport it out somewhere.
Pass it as a callback, return it as a
value, assign it to some global variable,
set it to a timer.
Whatever we do with it, if we take
the inner function and we transport it out
of the outer function, out of the outer
scope, Now we have a function
that's running around here, able to play
with those variables from the inside.
And the only way that can
work is because closure.
Isn't concept of closure
contradicting lexical scope?
No, they actually go hand in hand.
If you have a lexically scoped system,
which JavaScript is, and
you have functions which
are first class citizens,
meaning they're values that can be
passed around, which JavaScript does.
If those two things are true of
a language, which they are of JavaScript,
you virtually have to have closure.
Think about how crazy it would
be if you took a function, and
it referenced the variable, and
it worked when you called it here.
But then you passed it somewhere else and
all of a sudden it forgot
about its variable.
>> Kyle Simpson: That unpredictability
would be rather frustrating, right?
You virtually have to have
closure to make functions
as first class citizens work in
a lexically scoped language.
They are three pillars
of the same building,
you take one out,
the building falls apart.
So no absolutely closure is not
a contradiction of lexical scope,
closure is a logical
conclusion of lexical scope.
If you understand lexical scope,
you now understand closure.
And I would go so far as to say if
you don't understand lexical scope,
you have no hope of understanding closure.
>> Kyle Simpson: How do
you unset a closure?
You just get rid of the reference to
the function that has as the closure.
That could be unbinding an event handler,
if that event handler function had
the closure unbind it, and that'll throw
away the reference to the function.
When the function gets garbage collected,
its closure gets garbage collected,
which means any scopes it was holding
onto can now be garbage collected.
Exactly like you get rid of an array,
you unset it,
you set it to null,
whatever, same principle.
If a function has a closure, which
just by virtue of creating a function,
you're creating a closure over
any scope it has access to.
If a function has a closure and
you wanna get rid of that closure,
you've gotta get rid of that
reference to that function.
>> Speaker 2: So in this case,
they will unset automatically
after those timeouts, right?
>> Kyle Simpson: Because the set
timeout's gonna throw away
those function references, exactly.